Sure! Here are the markdown notes with explanations for each line:

## Python Installation

- ### Installing Python 3
```
sudo apt install python3
```
Explanation: This command installs Python 3 on your Ubuntu system.

- ### Installing pip (Python Package Manager)
```
sudo apt install python3-pip
```
Explanation: This command installs pip, the package manager for Python, which allows you to install and manage Python packages.

## Installing Anaconda on Ubuntu

1. Download the latest version of Anaconda from the official website.
2. Go to the Downloads folder and run the following command:
```
bash <AnacondaFile name>
```
Explanation: This command will install Anaconda on your system.

3. Launch Anaconda Navigator using the following command:
```
anaconda-navigator
```
Explanation: This command launches the Anaconda Navigator graphical user interface, which you can use to manage Anaconda packages and environments.

## IBS Training Sessions - Day 01

### Linux Brief History and Introduction
- Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShcR4Zfc6Dw&t=1s

### Linux Basics Introduction
- Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pTFZFxd4hOI&t=1707s

### Virtual Box Installation
- ### Installing VirtualBox
```
sudo apt install virtualbox
```
Explanation: This command installs VirtualBox, a virtualization software, on your system.

- ### Download Deb file from Oracle VM and run
```
sudo dpkg -i virtualbox-7.0_7.0.14-161095~Ubuntu~focal_amd64.deb
```
Explanation: This command downloads and installs the Deb file for VirtualBox.

- ### Error Handling
```
sudo apt -f install
```
Explanation: If you encounter an error during the installation process, run this command to fix broken dependencies and complete the installation.

- ### Re-run the installation command
```
sudo dpkg -i virtualbox-7.0_7.0.14-161095~Ubuntu~focal_amd64.deb
```
Explanation: After fixing the dependencies, run this command again to complete the installation.

### Setup Virtual Env. 2/2 Hypervisors
- Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wX75Z-4MEoM&t=3s

### Basic Commands

- ### Echo
```
echo hello
```
Explanation: This command prints the string "hello" to the terminal.

- ### Whoami
```
whoami
```
Explanation: This command displays the current username.

- ### Echo $0
```
echo $0
```
Explanation: This command prints the name of the current shell.

- ### History
```
history
```
Explanation: This command shows the history of commands used in the current shell session.

- ### Advanced Package Tool (APT)
```
apt list
```
Explanation: This command lists all installed packages.

```
apt update
```
Explanation: This command updates the package database.

```
apt install <package name>
```
Explanation: This command installs the specified package.

```
apt remove <package name>
```
Explanation: This command removes the specified package.

- ### Print Working Directory (PWD)
```
pwd
```
Explanation: This command prints the current working directory.

- ### List Files and Directories (LS)
```
ls
```
Explanation: This command lists files and directories in the current working directory.

```
ls -1
```
Explanation: This command lists files and directories one per line.

```
ls -l
```
Explanation: This command provides detailed information about files and directories.

```
ls -la
```
Explanation: This command lists all files and directories, including hidden files (files starting with a dot).

- ### Change Directory (CD)
```
cd <path>
```
Explanation: This command changes the current working directory.

```
cd ..
```
Explanation: This command moves up one directory level.

```
cd ~
```
Explanation: This command takes you to the home directory.

- ### Create Directory (MKDIR)
```
mkdir <directory name>
```
Explanation: This command creates a new directory.

- ### Move File (MV)
```
mv <file name> <destination location>
```
Explanation: This command moves a file to a specified destination.

- ### Create Files (TOUCH)
```
touch <file1> <file2> <file3...>
```
Explanation: This command creates one or more files with the specified names.

- ### Remove Files (RM)
```
rm <file1>
```
Explanation: This command removes a file.

```
rm file*
```
Explanation: This command removes all files starting with "file" in the current directory.

```
rm -r <dirname>
```
Explanation: This command removes a directory and its contents.

- ### View File Content (CAT, MORE, LESS)
```
cat <filename>
```
Explanation: This command displays the contents of a file (useful for small files).

```
more <file name>
```
Explanation: This command allows you to view the contents of a large file, scrolling down page by page.

```
less <file name>
```
Explanation: This command is similar to 'more', but it allows you to scroll up and down in the file.

- ### View First/Last Few Lines (HEAD/TAIL)
```
head <int:lines numbers>
```
Explanation: This command displays the first n lines of a file.

```
tail <int:number of lines>
```
Explanation: This command displays the last n lines of a file.

## Redirection
```
cat file.txt > file2.txt
```
Explanation: This command redirects the output of `cat file.txt` to `file2.txt`, effectively copying the contents of `file.txt` into `file2.txt`.

```
>
```
Explanation: The `>` symbol is used for output redirection, sending the output of a command to a specified file or device.

```
<
```
Explanation: The `<` symbol is used for input redirection, taking input from a specified file or device for a command.